# RESTful API for Personal Reading List

The project provides python flask RESTful API for building a personal reading list. It uses external RESTful service to complement its functionality.

The external API comes from OpenLibrary.

https://openlibrary.org/dev/docs/api/books


## 1. Basic Task

### 1.1 External API

```
@app.route("/detail/<type>/<index>")
```
This api interacts with external Openlibrary api. It provided the detail of a book on Openlibrary based on the identity number of a book.

Parameter \<type\> is for type of identity number.According to document, it currently support 4 type, including ISBN, OCLC, LCCN, OLID. Parameter \<index\> is the identity number.

### 1.2 External Cloud Database

In this project, we choose MongoDB for persisting information. MongoDB is a popular NoSQL database, the basic unit of MongoDB is document. It is flexibale and ideal for persisting json. 

#### 1.2.1 MongoDB Set Up

Simply pull docker image for MongoDB

```
docker pull mongo
```

#### 1.2.2 Implement Interface In Python

Four different kinds of HTTP request corresponding to four operations on database. Interface including ```read```, ```write```, ```update```, ```delete``` methods.

Detail implements are included in mongoDB.py

### 1.3 CURD Operations

Test for REST api will be carried out using postman. In each section, the body of the request will be shown.

#### 1.3.1 POST
Request Body:
```
{
    "database": "books",
    "collection": "read",
    "Document": {
        "Title": "Book1",
        "Author": "Author1",
        "Description": "This is Book1"
    }
}
```
```database```: Assign which database to use.
```collection```: Assign which collection to use.
If the database or collection doesn't exsist, it will be created automatically.
```Document```: The information will be insertedo into the database.

Respond Body:
```
{
    "Status": "Sucessfully Inserted",
    "Document_ID": "606a49eecc9d19d8cdbb6e94"
}
```

It returns the status and unique id generated by database.
#### 1.3.2 GET
Request Body:
```
{
    "database": "books",
    "collection": "read"
}
```
Respond Body:
```
[
    {
        "Title": "Book1",
        "Author": "Author1",
        "Description": "This is Book1"
    }
]
```
#### 1.3.3 PUT

#### 1.3.4 DELETE

## 2. Adavanced Task

### 2.1 HTTPS Implementation